Hello.
This lecture I want to talk about another way to implement the factory method.
Previous lecture I showed you the strictest way to implement it in terms of this was the way the Gang
of Four designed it and it had an abstract creator had a lot of subclasses.
It was really really strict to the class diagram from the getting a four book in this implementation
I'm going to show you a more common way to implement it so you don't have so many subclasses.
So this is the most common implementation.
This is the second way I'm going to show you I want to show you a third as well.
This includes creating a single concrete creator class so you don't have all these creator classes that
are subclass from the greater abstract interface.
In this case you just have a single creator class that's implementing the interface so the creator class
is one concrete class you had implementation code to one factory method.
Inside this concrete class and the implementation code will create the right product type based on a
parameter you pass to the method and the parameter you pass to the method is usually a string that describes
the product that you want to create.
So to use the factory method to create the objects you create an instance of the Creator class and then
you invoke the factory method and the argument that you pass would just be like the name of the class
the name of the product that you want to create.
It's pretty simple the advantage of this approach is that you don't need to create a subclass a new
subclass for every single product.
A new factory in our example we had a shape fact we had an a square Abstract Factory method a circle
and so forth and you had to have subclass reach one this in this instance implementation you only have
to have one.
So it simplifies things quite a bit.
And this is again the most common way you'll see things so we're going to run through the same example
that we did previously in intelligence.
Just to refresh your memory.
This is the concept of shapes we're going to create different types of shapes so we're gonna have a
shape interface that represents our product interface and then we can have a bunch of classes and implement
that interface.
Circle square rectangle we're then going to have a creator class the creator class is going to contain
the factory method.
We're only going to have one class that implements that interface or one subclass of that base class
and that will take a parameter the method vector math will take a parameter depending on to determine
how it will instance to create and then we'll create our client class which will use the shape factor
to get a shape object.
And it just passes the information across so the class diagram for that is going to look something like
this shape interface for our products circle square rectangle.
None of that changes from our previous implementation that's the same.
The difference here is we only have one shape factory and the shape factory has a single factory method
that takes a parameter and this will be clear when we bring it up in intelligence.
So let's bring up an Intel g to show you how to implement this nice way of implementing the factory
method
going to create another product which is going to be our second example we'll call it the factory concrete
creator example
so factory factory concrete creator.
Example
The first thing we're going to do is we're going to create our shape interface which represents our
product and those concrete classes we'll do this kind of quickly because we already went through this
in our last lecture.
So I'm going to copy and paste some code in here again it should be very familiar.
We have our public interface shape and then we just have a rectangle circle and square that implements
this and I'm going to make these default access so I don't have to worry about put them in separate
files rectangle
again square and circle
these are our products again after we create our products we then need to create our abstract creator
in a single subclass that implements that.
So here we have this.
Now we need to create our shape factoring in this case our shape factory doesn't even necessarily have
to be an interface since it's just one concrete implementation.
Sometimes you'll see the the creator have an interface and then a concrete one concrete creator but
you can simplify it even further by just creating a single shape factory.
Let's create a new job a class will call a shape factory
and this class is going move a month the factory method it's basically going to have a get shape method
which is our factory method and that member that's gonna take a parameter for the type of shape to create
it's going to take a string.
So here we're gonna use this shape method to get an object of type shape.
This is our factory method so I'll name it public.
It's going to return a shape reference that's going to be named get shape and it's going to take a string.
This is the key here and this implementation the parameter of the sketch sheet method.
This is just going to represent the shape type that you want to create and a lot of times you'll see
this created with a switch statement or a bunch of other statements.
Now if the shape type you're passing in is no then you just want to return null.
So we could just say return.
No we're just going to make sure that a little validation and shape type equals or
else if the shape type that equals and we'll say equals in your case just to make it more robust if
it equals a circle all caps then we want to create a circle object right.
So we're just going to say return to circle house.
If the shape type equals ignore case and in this case it's going to be a rectangle.
Then we're gonna return a new Rectangle.
You see how easy the factory method is now.
It's a single factory method.
We're just a bunch of statements.
We don't have to have a separate subclass for every single factory method.
And then lastly we say if the change type equals square we'll return a square.
And I chose to do all caps are it's not always necessary
parentheses.
No that's good.
Here we're gonna say return to square
and just to do our catch all you're gonna say return no otherwise we'll have an error.
And so this is our simple factory method pretty straightforward just takes a parameter.
Right.
Much easier.
Now we create our client and we don't have to create an instance of every single subclass we can just
create one instance of the same factory and pass and strengths.
So let's create a new client
again this will have a public static void Main
and this will just use the factory to create some different shapes.
The key here is we just have to create one concrete class our shape factory.
And then here we can name its shape factory.
We do this right at the top.
It's a new shape factory and then we can just get different types of objects by calling our shape factory
get shape factory method and then passing in the correct parameters.
So if we want to circle we would use to do something like this.
We would pass on the circle string to our give shape and it will return a circle object.
Then when we call the draw method on it it will call the circle draw method and we can also do that
for both of the other objects.
The rectangle and the square and then also draw the
so we get an object of rock table rectangle called Shape method and then square at the bottom but we
don't have to create a subclass for every single product because the product correlates to the Creator.
We don't have to do that.
So now when we build and run this we should see the same output that we saw on the previous example.
Just basically three output output data for each instance that was created.
So we run this.
We run the client and you'll notice the outputs the exact same as the previous example we're calling
the draw method for the circle rectangle square.
This is a bit similar and again simple than the previous example and also just more common these.
When you look at factory method you'll typically see this with a parameter in the method itself of the
factory method and then the client is passing in the type the string that they want to create a nice
easy solution.
Thank you.